ARIA, like all this really cool stuff with
labeling and rules, there's another big
topic within it that I think is some
of the coolest parts of ARIA, and
that's what's called live regions.
So live regions are made so that screen
reader users can be informed that
things are happening on the screen
without moving their keyboard focus.
Imagine you're typing in a form
text area and it auto saves and
there's a toast notification at
when you pause that says, saved.
And you're like, cool, okay.
I can kind of relax a little bit.
I'm not gonna lose this opus when
I'm writing if something happens,
my page refreshes.
If you can't see that toast,
it's elsewhere on the screen and
we don't wanna move the user's
focus cuz they're flowing.
We don't wanna disrupt
the writing process.
How is a screen reader user going to
know that there was a notification?
Well, there's a thing called live regions
that make it really easy to just pipe
a message to the screen reader
without moving the focus at all.
So there's a few different ways that we
can set these up, and these live regions
are helpful in many different contexts,
including client side routing,
which we will also talk about
in enterprise accessibility.
But we can set live regions
with two major levels.
So there's assertive and polite.
I think assertive maybe even was called
rude at one time because it will interrupt
everything else.
So if you have other announcements,
polite will wait and
kind of slot into the queue of
announcements until other things are done,
which for a lot of things is appropriate.
But for things that are time sensitive,
like you are going
to be logged out automatically or
alert, I guess alert would move focus.
But we sometimes need different
settings for different things.
So assertive and polite.
So there's different
ways to set live regions.
There's a role of status,
a role of log, a role of alert.
Those are all the more polite,
chill versions of this.
The more interrupty ones are, I guess,
role alert will interrupt and
the assertive.
So there's roles and aria-live attributes.
aria-live polite is similar
to role status, role log.
aria-live assertive is the same
level as the assertive.
So those will interrupt.
And these act as a message center.
So any element that has these roles or
aria-lives on them,
if you append any text to that element,
it will automatically read it.
And we're gonna go add
one to our product page.
So you can put a CSS class on these so
that they are rendered and
they are read aloud,
but you don't see them.
So the screen reader only class or
visually hidden class.
Kind of a best practice to, these aren't
usually visual content, they're for
screen readers.
So to test them, the only real way
to test this is in a screen reader.
So here's one case,
we had some questions understandably
about how often do I need
to test screen readers?
If you're writing a live region,
you kind of have to,
otherwise you're never
gonna hear the output.
So that is one type of use case or
feature that you will be firing
up the screen reader for.
But a lot of the times I think testing
it in voice-over seems to be sufficient.
Yeah, if you can test it on Windows,
that would be helpful.
So there was question around
this topic that I saw about,
can you play a sound with a live region?
I think potentially you could,
but I don't think you'd want to.
I think the sound could interfere with
the text content since there's an order.
I mean, talk about you have to
either interrupt other text or
it has to wait in a queue.
So I don't think you'd wanna
interrupt anything with a sound.
I guess if that was a really
compelling idea for
your product, go test it with people.
Create a prototype,
see if it will work for one,
see if it annoys the heck out
of people like I think it would.
[LAUGH] So the big cautionary note
with live regions is don't overdo it.
If divs are annoying,
live regions can be really,
really annoying because they talk at you.
And my favorite anecdote of live regions
is that there was a chat widget on a major
social media site that there could be
multiple instances of the chat widget.
And it was just automatically
announcing the time, five minutes ago,
ten minutes ago, three minutes ago.
Where's that coming from?
It's from the chat widgets.
So the automatic
announcement can go awry and
end up being less helpful
than we think they would.
So we wanna use this sparingly.